Title: Chapter 3: LIQUIDITY CONSIDERATIONS
Duration: 3 minutes
Word Count: 421
--------------------------------------------------
Welcome to Chapter 3: LIQUIDITY CONSIDERATIONS. According to the general economic theory, frictionless and well-functioning markets tend to produce efficient outcomes that benefit consumers (Varian 1992). This is facilitated by features such as low transaction costs, immediacy in execution, and the ability to execute large transactions without significantly impacting prices. The Committee on the Global Financial System (CGFS 2014) defines market liquidity as the ability to execute large transactions quickly with minimal price impact, meaning that recent transactions should not have a significant effect on the overall market price in deep and liquid markets. Gold is liquid across various investment platforms. According to the latest World Gold Council data on Q1 2023, the average daily trading volume is spread between over-the- counter (OTC) markets (US $97bn), open interest through derivatives traded on various *Daily average trading volume for Q1 2023. The liquidity of the gold market is comparable to the Treasury bills, US Agency MBS and ABS, all traded stocks in S&P 500 with the average trading volume at around US$164 billion such as the Dow Jones Industrial Average, UK and German bonds, and US corporate bonds. Physical gold holdings by investors and central banks are estimated to be worth $4.9 trillion, with an additional $1.2 Now let's look at some key points. 11/7/2003-3/10/2023. Since the fall of the “gold standard” in 1971, gold has delivered an average annual return of around 11 percent, with a compounded annual growth rate (CAGR) of 8 percent. One reason as a store of value or medium of exchange, it also has various industrial and technological applications, ensuring that its value does not depend solely on its use as a store of value. Although gold has the significant drawback of gold earning no interest return, if effectively managed, gold holdings can nonetheless generate positive returns in a rising market (Astrow 2012). When compared to other major asset In conclusion, corporate, and credit bonds, yet still maintaining a sizable allocation in US Treasuries. The third example, Portfolio 3, shows a sample pension fund/SWF/endowment portfolio with a long-term investment horizon and aiming to generate high return and fund future liabilities. The historical performance of the portfolios will be backtested by adding 10 percent and 20 percent gold into each portfolio with the objective of analyzing whether the gold allocation would have improved the risk/return characteristics of the portfolio and its drawdowns during the periods of financial distress to help achieve institutional goals of holding reserves. EM CENTRAL BANK PORTFOLIO (PORTFOLIO 1) Thank you for watching this chapter.