Title: Chapter 1: ASSET MANAGERS
Duration: 3 minutes
Word Count: 421
--------------------------------------------------
Welcome to Chapter 1: ASSET MANAGERS. not necessarily reflect the views of The World Bank, its Board of Executive Directors, or the governments they represent. The World for any errors, omissions, or discrepancies in the information, or liability with respect to the use of or failure to use the information, methods, processes, or conclusions set forth. Nothing herein shall constitute or be construed or considered to be a limitation upon or which are specifically reserved. Two main factors may explain recent increase in gold purchases by central banks. First, gold is viewed as a safe haven and desirable asset during times of economic, financial, and geopolitical uncertainty as well as a portfolio diversifier. Second, gold is seen as a safe asset when countries are subject to financial sanctions and asset freezes. Skeptics, however, point to drawbacks in reliance on gold, including its cost to transport, warehouse, and secure and its lack of interest. Despite these disadvantages, gold remains a popular asset for central banks due to its historical track record and the well-regulated markets for trading. The available empirical evidence suggests that some reserve managers respond to relative costs and returns by increasing the share of gold in their reserves when the expected return on financial Now let's look at some key points. mine supply 75% 3,482 tonnes Recycled gold 25% 1,172 tonnes Total supply 4,653 tonnes Mined Recycled Because gold has multiple sources of demand and supply as compared to other major asset classes, its liquidity is less likely to dry up during times of market volatility. A large fraction of the demand comes from the physical side, as gold is actively used to produce jewelry and technology as well as being bought physically by central banks; taken together, Central banks are significant players in the gold market, holding large reserves of gold as a store of value and a hedge against In conclusion, reserve managers consider gold to be a means of protecting against economic and geopolitical risks, and they therefore tend to increase their gold holdings during times of uncertainty or high geopolitical risk. Additionally, reserve managers in emerging markets tend to increase their gold holdings when there is a risk of financial sanctions. The largest increases in gold holdings by central banks often occur when the banks anticipate or face financial sanctions. The study’s econometric analysis revealed that both the volume and the value of gold reserves tend to rise in response to sanctions imposed by major economies such as the Thank you for watching this chapter.