Title: Chapter 2: Euro Area, Japan, the United Kingdom, or the United States, in either the current or the
Duration: 2 minutes
Word Count: 435
--------------------------------------------------
Welcome to Chapter 2: Euro Area, Japan, the United Kingdom, or the United States, in either the current or the. immediately preceding years. In their research, Baur and Smales (2018, 2020) make a distinction between expected or perceived geopolitical risk and actual or realized geopolitical risk, and conclude that the former is more significant in determining gold prices. Central banks hold their reserves in a variety of assets, including fixed-income products (such as government bonds), deposits with commercial banks or money market instruments, currency deposits with other central banks or multilateral organizations (such as the Bank for International Settlements or the International Monetary Fund), Special Drawing Rights (SDRs) with the IMF, and gold. Around 85 percent of their currency reserves are held in US dollars, euros, or British pounds (IMF COFER 2022Q3). This means that they may not be able to access these reserves if there are problems with these currencies. Gold differs from other central bank assets in that it can be stored in the home country and is insulated from geopolitical risks. However, gold stored locally can only be exchanged for domestic currency or used to settle obligations with countries that accept it as payment. It cannot be used as collateral for swaps and loans. Although geopolitical risks are likely to strengthen gold’s role as a reserve asset, Now let's look at some key points. gold. Among the eligible investment options, gold was more commonly allowed than inflation-indexed bonds, which were permitted by only 50 percent of the respondents. Additionally, almost all of the central banks surveyed were eligible to invest in bonds, bank deposits, SSA securities, and money market instruments, On average, respondents allocated 8 percent of their portfolios to gold. It is worth noting that although 60 percent of central banks hold gold in their reserve portfolios, only 20 II. GOVERNANCE AND bank reserve portfolios is usually not determined based on considerations of risk and return or correlations with other asset classes. In In conclusion, allocation in a portfolio is 10 percent, which, when combined with a 30/70 equity-bond mix, results in a 3.3 percent downside volatility. This “gilded mix” has lower negative volatility than a 30/70 equity- bond combination with bonds. A 10 percent gold allocation to a fixed equity-bond portfolio reduces downside volatility by 0.3 percentage points, or 10 percent. Except for exceptionally stock-heavy portfolios, when the proportional reduction in downside volatility is approximately 15 percent, this conclusion holds over the whole range of stock-bond ratios. As a result, gold has the potential to be a useful capital preservation asset in a portfolio. Thank you for watching this chapter.