Title: Chapter 6: BUYING GOLD THROUGH LOCAL PRODUCTION
Duration: 2 minutes
Word Count: 424
--------------------------------------------------
Welcome to Chapter 6: BUYING GOLD THROUGH LOCAL PRODUCTION. Purchases of local gold production have a distinct advantage in that, because the gold is purchased for the local currency, the procedure can help build up foreign reserves. Central banks can set up local gold buying programs in several ways. The most common procedure is to give the country’s central bank a “priority right” or “right of first refusal” to purchase local production. (Some countries like Ethiopia, Ghana, Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz Republic, Türkiye, and Uzbekistan use this approach.) An alternative method is for the central bank to set up a special gold buying program or form direct agreements to purchase the metal from local artisanal and small-scale miners (e.g., the ASGM program) or commercial banks (as in Bolivia, Ecuador, Mongolia, the Philippines, the Russian Federation, and Zambia). The central banks publish the official gold purchase prices and usually include a discount for logistics costs, trading (bid-ask spread), and quality, if the metal is not of LGD standard. Since most locally produced gold comes in nonstandardized form, the central banks engage in quality swap programs to upgrade their holdings to LGD standard. This is accomplished with the help of LGD refiners, with both the Bank for International Settlements (BIS) and bullion Now let's look at some key points. Loco London, Berne, and New York accounts Location London Paris New York Berne Extra services Gold purchases and sales, outright forwards, deposits, gold swaps Gold trading, gold quality upgrade, location exchange Logistics and insurance for gold are usually accomplished by only a few of the largest logistics companies possessing the required capabilities to secure the transport of high- value cargo. Among them are Brinks, Loomis, Malca-Amit, and G4S, who offer full suites of solutions for secure transport, insurance, and vaulting of physical gold. Physical gold is transported and insured in accordance with the international terms of sale (Incoterms) agreed upon In conclusion, have a positive environmental impact. Furthermore, there is no internationally accepted method for assessing the carbon footprint of gold. Gold mining is known to have a significant impact on anthropogenic climate change due to the use of fossil fuels, primarily diesel, resulting in considerable greenhouse gas emissions (Mudd 2007). Various studies have confirmed that the greenhouse gas emission (GHG) intensity associated with gold production is substantially higher compared to that of other metals (Baur and Oll 2019). However, when considering global production on an aggregate level, gold proves to be more environmentally friendly than other metals. V. SUSTAINABLE INVESTING IN Thank you for watching this chapter.